The UiPath Platform. We will start by having a look at a video from UiPath presenting their own platform
before going a little more into detail of the most central components of the platform.
Robotic process automation is a proven way to enhance the way people work. By automating mundane and
repetitive tasks, users are freed up to focus on thought provoking work that requires creativity,
critical thinking and human judgment.
For a growing number of organizations, the UiPath Enterprise RPA Platform is the right choice for deploying
RPA.
With the UiPath Enterprise RPA Platform, companies can gain capacity, enhance efficiency and increase process,
scalability and flexibility.
The UiPath Enterprise RPA Platform
consists of three main components: Studio, Robots and Orchestrator.
Studio is a highly visual, intuitive automation tool with process recorders and pre-built drag and
drop activities that enable people without developer skills to quickly create RPA workflows.
Robots are software workers that run the automation's created in Studio. UiPath robots fit every business process.
...
Attended robots directly assist employees, while unattended robots work autonomously.
And finally, Orchestrator is an intelligent console that deploys robots, schedules work and reports
on performance.
All UiPath Enterprise RPA Platform components work together seamlessly. Rapidly delivering unmatched,
innovative, end-to-end solutions that give customers a competitive edge in performance, cost and user experience.
...
As you learned from the video, The UiPath RPA Platform consists of three main components: Studio, Orchestrator
and Robots.
UiPath Studio is the developer tool that is used to automate your processes with the minimum use
of code.
UiPath offers three distinct versions of UiPath Studio, namely StudioX, Studio and Studio Pro.
StudioX is for business users with no or very limited coding skills and is for automating straightforward
and simple tasks.
It is basically a very intuitive no-coding tool. Studio is for RPA developers with basic programming
knowledge.
And is for automating more complex tasks. This is the version we will be downloading and be using throughout
this training. Studio Pro is for specialized developers with advanced programming knowledge and
offer, among other, more testing capability and the opportunity to code C# automation projects
directly in the software.
UiPath Orchestrator is a web application that enables you to orchestrate your UiPath robots in executing
repetitive business processes. Orchestrator's main capabilities include: Provisioning, meaning creating
and maintaining the connection between robots and the web application. Deployment, meaning assuring
the correct delivery of package versions to the assigned robots for execution. Configuration, meaning
maintaining and delivering robot environments and processes configuration.
Queues, meaning ensuring automatic workload distribution across different robots.
Monitoring, meaning keeping track of robot identification data and maintain user permissions.
Logging, meaning storing and indexing of log files to a SQL database and/or Elasticsearch, depending
on your architecture and configuration; and Interconnectivity, meaning acting as the centralized point
of communication for third-party solutions or applications.
In this training, we will not use Orchestrator to deploy and pass automated processes onto UiPath Robot.
...
We will simply run our processes directly from Studio; and that takes me to the last component, which
is the UiPath Robots
So UiPath Robots carry out processes and there are two main types of robots; attended robots and
unattended robots. Attended robots work side-by-side with humans on their desktops and act like personal
assistants to help out with daily tasks.
Employees access, schedule, and run attended automations in what is called UiPath Assistant, which is a desktop
launchpad for automations.
In this training, we will be using an attended robot to run our processes.
Unattended robots work independently in the background and handle task heavy, long running processes.
Unattended robots usually run at scheduled times on a company server or in the cloud with little or
no human intervention at all.
But if human intervention is needed, unattended robots will check-in with employees for validation
or if there's a question or exception via the UiPath Action Center, which is another part of the
UiPath platform.
So now that you know about the three main components, what we would need to pilot the process using
UiPath is only Studio to develop the process and an attended or unattended robot to execute the process.
UiPath Orchestrator is only needed for those who seek to scale their robotics initiative, automate
a number of processes and are in need of a tool to monitor, schedule and control the automated processes.
So what about the costs of the different components?
Well, finding pricing for different RPA tools is not straightforward and prices are usually not publicly
available.
Prices are often set based on your organization's size, your needs, and how well you manage to negotiate
the price with the vendor.
However, for the main components of UiPath, you should expect prices of approximately 2000-3000€
annually per studio license.
And what we will do is to use the free Community Edition of Studio
in this training. For Orchestrator, you should expect prices around 20.000€ annually. For an unattended
robot, about 8000€ per robot annually, and for an attended robot somewhere between 1200-1800€
per robot annually.
As you can see, Orchestrator is the most expensive. And one of many great features of Orchestrator is
the chance to schedule your automated processes and to have them executed from the web application.
However, to start processes without Orchestrator, there are several options:
This can be done directly from UiPath Studio or the UiPath Assistant, which we will be doing, or it
can be done directly from the Windows Command Line or by using restful APIs. For both scheduling and
execution,
one could also use, for example, Windows Task Scheduler, among other options.
And that's what we need to know right now about the UiPath Platform.